in the second tutorial video on octave
I'd like to start to tell you how to
move data around in octave so if you
have data for a machine learning problem
how do you load that data in octave how
do you present a matrix how do you
manipulate these matrices how do you
save the results how do you move data
around and operate with data here's my
octave window as before picking up from
where we left off in the last video if I
type a that's the matrix so we generate
it right with this command equals one
two three four five six and this is a
three by two matrix the size command in
octave lets you tells you what is the
size of a matrix so size a returns three
two it turns out that the size command
itself is actually returning a one by
two matrix so you can actually set SZ
equals size of a and SZ is now a one by
two matrix where the first element of
this is three and the second element of
this is to search as you type size of as
Z this Z is a one by two matrix whose
two elements contain the dimensions of
the matrix a you can also type size a
one to give you back the first dimension
of a outside to the first dimension of a
so that's the number of rows and size a
two to give you back two which is the
number of columns in the matrix a if you
have a vector V so let's say V equals
one two three four and you type length V
what this does is it gives you the size
of the longest dimension so you can also
type length a and because a is a three
by two matrix the longer dimension is of
size three so this should print out
three but usually we apply length only
to a vector so you know length one two
three four five rather than apply
lengths to matrices because better
that's a little more confusing
now let's look at how to load data and
find data on a thought system when we
start up octave where usually we're
often in a path that is near the
location of where the octave program is
so the PWD command shows the current
directory or the current path that
octave is in so right now we're in this
somewhat maybe somewhat obscure
directory the CD command stands for
change directory so i can go to c colon
slash user slash ang slash desktop and
now i'm in you know my desktop and if i
type LS LS since whoever comes from a
UNIX or Linux command but OS will list
the directories on my desktop and so you
know these are the files that are on my
desktop right now
in fact on my desktop are two vowels
features X and price Y that maybe come
from a machine learning problem and want
to solve so here's my desktop here's
some features X and features X is this
window excuse me is this file with two
columns of data
this is actually my housing prices data
so I think you know I think I have 47
rows in this data set and so the first
house had size 204 square feet has three
bedrooms second house at 1600 square
feet has three bedrooms and so on and
price why is this file that has the
prices of the data in my training set so
features X and price Y I just text files
with my data how do I load this data
into octave
well I pick my load features X dot dat
and if I do that and load the features X
I can load price y dot that and by the
way there multiple ways to do this this
command if you are put features X
thought that in strings and loaded like
so this is a typo there this is a
equivalent command so you can but this
way I'm just putting the file name of
the string in the file name in a string
and in octave you use single quotes to
to represent strings like so so that's a
string and I can load the file whose
name is given by that string now the
hukum and now shows me what variables I
have in my octave workspace so who shows
me whether the variables that octave has
a memory currently features X and price
Y are among them as well as the
variables that nearly created earlier in
this session so you can type features X
to display features X and there's my
data and I can type size features X and
that's my 47 by 2 matrix and some of the
size price Y that
by 47 by one vector for this is a 47
dimensional vector this tall column
vector that has all the prices Y in my
training set
now the who function shows you what are
the variables that in the current
workspace there's also the who X
variable that gives you the detail view
and so this also with an S at the end
there's also lists my variables except
that it now listed sizes as well so a is
a three by two matrix and features X is
a 47 by 2 matrix price price Y is a 47
by 1 matrix meaning this is just a
vector and it shows you know how many
bytes and memory is taking up as well as
a white type of data this is double
means double precision floating point so
that just means these are real values or
fourteen point numbers now if you want
to get rid of a variable you can use the
clear command so clear features X and
type whose again you notice that the
features X therefore has now disappeared
and how do you save data let's see let's
take the variable V and set its a price
Y 1 : 10 this sets V to be the first 10
elements of the vector Y so let's type
who or whose whereas Y was a 47 by 1
vector V is now 10 by 1 because in
equals price Y 1 : 10 the sets into the
just the first 10 elements of Y let's
say I want to save this to day to disk
the command save hello.mat
V this will save the variable V into a
file called hello.mat so let's do that
and now a fire has appeared on my
desktop you know called hello dot net I
happen to have MATLAB installed in this
windows which is why you notice this
icon looks like this because Windows has
recognizes it somehow that file but
don't worry about it if this file looks
like it has a different icon
your machine and let's say I clear all
my variables if I give you type clear
without anything then just actually do
these all the variables in your world
space so that whose there's now nothing
left in the workspace and if I load
hello that I can now load back my
variable V which is my data that
previously saved into the Holloman file
so hello don't matter what we did just
now the save hello.mat to begin this
saves the data in a binary format and
there's somewhat more compressed binary
format so that if V is a lot of data
this you know will be somewhat more
compressed and will take up less the
space if you want to save your data in a
human readable format then you type save
hello Tex the variable V and then -
ASCII so this will save it as a text or
as ASCII formatted text and now once
I've done that I have this file
hello Texas just appeared on my desktop
and if I open this up you see that this
is a text file with my with my data
saved away so that's how you load and
save data now let's talk a bit about how
to manipulate data let's set a equals to
that matrix again so it's my three by
two matrix I saw quite indexing so if I
type a three comma two this indexes into
the three comma two elements of the
matrix a so this is what you normally we
write this as a subscript 3 2 or a
subscript you know 3 2 and so that's the
element in the third row and second
column of a which is the element six I
can also type a 2 comma colon to fetch
everything in the second row so the
colon means every element
along that row or column so a of 2 comma
colon is this second row of a right and
similarly if I do a colon comma 2 then
this means get everything in the second
column of a so this gives me 2 4 6 red
this means of a everything calmer second
column so this is my second column of a
which is 2 4 6 now you can also use
somewhat more sophisticated indexing
operations so just quickly show you an
example you do this maybe less often but
let me do a 1 3 comma colon this means
get all the elements of a whose first
index is 1 or 3 this means I get
everything from the first and third rows
of a and from all columns so this was
the matrix a and so a 1 3 comma colon
means get everything from the first row
and from the second row and from the
third row and colon means you know I
want both the first and the second
columns and so this gives me this 1 2 5
6 although you you use these sort of a
more sophisticated indexing operations
may be somewhat less often to show you
what else we can do here's the a matrix
and that this was a colon comma 2 gave
me the second column you can also use
this to do assignment so I can take the
second column of a and assign that to 10
11 12 and if I do that I'm now you know
taking the second column of a and I'm
assigning this column vector 10 11 12 to
it so now a is this matrix that's 1 3 5
and the second column has been replaced
by 10 11 and 12
and here's another operation and it said
a let's set a to be equal to a comma 100
101 102 like so and what this will do is
append another column vector to the
right so now
oops I think I made a mistake should I
put semicolons there and now it is equal
to this okay hold that make sense so
this 100 101 102 this is a column vector
and what we did was we set a tink a and
set it to the original definition and
then we put that column vector to the
right and so we ended up taking the
matrix a and which was a this six
elements on the left so he told the
matrix a and we appended another column
vector to the right which is not why now
a is a three by three matrix that looks
like that and finally one neat trick
that I sometimes use if you do a and
then just a colon like so there's a
somewhat special case syntax what this
means is that put all elements of a into
a single column vector and this gives me
a nine by one vector that just has all
the elements of a concatenated together
just a couple more examples I can also
let's see let's say I set a to be equal
to 1 2 3 4 5 6 again and let's say I set
B to be equal to 11 12 13 14 15 16 I can
create a new matrix C as a B this just
means so here's my matrix a here's my
matrix B and if I set C to be equal to a
B what I'm doing is I'm taking these two
matrices and just concatenating them
onto each other so the left on matrix a
on the left and I have the matrix B on
the right and that's how I form this you
know this matrix C by putting them
together I can also do C equals a
semicolon B the semicolon notation means
that means it means that go put the next
thing at the bottom side with your C
equals a semicolons B it also puts the
matrices a and B together except that it
now puts them on top
of each other so now I have a on top and
B at the bottom and C here is now a six
by two matrix so so just say again the
semicolon thing usually means you know
go to the next line so C is comprised by
a and then go to the bottom of that and
then put B at the bottom and by the way
this a B is the same as a comma B and so
you know either of these gives you the
same result so with that hopefully you
now know how to construct matrices and
hopefully this starts to show you some
of the commands that you can use to
quickly put together matrices and take
matrices and you know slam them together
to form big bigger matrices and with
just a few lines of code octave is very
convenient in terms of how quickly we
can assemble complex matrices and move
data around so that's it for moving data
around in the next video we'll start to
talk about how to actually do complex
computations on justice on our data
so hopefully that gives you a sense of
how with just a few commands you can
very quickly move data around in octave
you you know though then say vectors and
matrices alone the sake data put
together matrices create bigger matrices
index into or select specific elements
all the matrices I know I went through a
lot of commands but so I think the best
thing for you to do is afterwards to
look at the transcript of the things I
was typing you look at look at the
course website and download the
transcript of the session from there and
look for the transcript and type some of
those commands into octave yourself so
that you can start to play these
commands and get to work and obviously
you know there's no point at all to try
to memorize all these commands it's just
yeah but what you should do is hopefully
from this video you have gotten a sense
of the sorts of things you can do so
that when later on when you're trying to
program a learning algorithm system
yourself if you are trying to find a
specific command that maybe you think
octave can do because you think you
might have seen it here you should refer
to the transcript of the session and
look through that and over to find the
commands you want to use so that's it
for moving data around and in the next
video what I'd like to do is start to
tell you how to actually do complex
computations on our data and how to
compute on our data and actually start
to implement learning algorithms